Q1. What are some of the possible services that a link-layer protocol can offer to the network layer? Which of these link-layer services have corresponding services in IP and TCP?
- checks and fixes bit errors - also in IP/TCP
- provides congestion checks - i.e. links are not overwhelmed

Q2. Why is an ARP query sent within a broadcast frame? Why is an ARP response sent within a frame with a specific destination MAC address?
The point of an ARP query is to determine which (if any) host has a designated IP address so that the MAC address can be found and the data can be sent along the correct interfaces. As we do not know which host this could be, we need to send a broadcast so all hosts can check. The ARP response has a specific MAC address becasue it simply sends the response back to the host which sent the broadcast (it can use this MAC address)

Q3. Suppose nodes A, B and C each attach to the same broadcast LAN through their adapters. If A sends thousands of IP datagrams to B with each encapsulating frame addressed to the MAC address of B, will C’s adapter process these frames? If so, will C’s adapter pass the IP datagrams in these frames to C (that is, the adapter’s parent node)? How would your answers change if A sent frames with the MAC broadcast address?
No, C will not process or receive these frames as the MAC address uniquely identifies a single host - the broadcast LAN is not used once the MAC address is know. If A sent with the broadcast MAC then yes, C would also receive those frames as it is part of the network.

Q4. Consider a network with 6 nodes connected in a star topology (all nodes directly connect to a switch) to a central switch. 
Suppose that
(i) A sends a frame to D,
(ii) D replies with a frame to A,
(iii) C sends a frame to D,
(iv) D replies with a frame to C. 
The switch table is initially empty. Show the state of the switch table before and after each of these events. For each of these events, identify the link(s) on which the transmitted frame will be forwarded, and briefly justify your answers.

Q5. Why are Acknowledgment used in 802.11 but not used in wired Ethernet?
Wifi is wireless and thus in a more turbid environment whereas wired ethernet is more controlled and has stronger guarantees that the content is received thus has a lesser need for acknowledgements.

Q6. Why would the token passing protocol be inefficient if a LAN had a very large perimeter?
It would be inefficient because the token restricts which devices are able to transmit. The token would essentially act as a bottleneck only allowing a single device to transmit at one point int time, this would be especially pronounced if the LAN is very large.

Q7. In CSMA/CD, after the fifth collision, what is the probability that a node chooses K=4?
1 in 32.

Q8. Consider the three LANs interconnected by two routers, as show in the figure below.
(a) Assign IP addresses to all of the interfaces. For Subnet 1 use addresses of the form
192.168.1.xxx; for Subnet 2 use addresses of the form 192.168.2.xxx; and for subnet 3 use addresses
of the form 192.168.3.xxx.
(b) Assign MAC addresses to all of the adapters.
(c) Consider sending an IP datagram from Host E to Host B. Suppose all of the ARP tables are up to
date. Enumerate all the steps, as done for the single-router example in Section 5.4.1 of the textbook.
(d) Repeat (c), now assuming that the ARP table in the sending host is empty (and the other tables
are up to date)
